Update package docs to include package bundle information (#6247)
aws/eks-anywhere: docs/content/en/docs/packages/packagebundles.md

---
title: "Managing package bundles"
linkTitle: "Package bundles"
weight: 5
aliases:
    /docs/tasks/packages/packagebundles/
---

### Getting new package bundles

> Package bundle resources created and managed in the management cluster, so first set up `KUBECONFIG` environment variable for the management cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Package bundle resources are created and managed in the management cluster, so first set up `KUBECONFIG` environment variable for the management cluster.
```

Reviewer: is there a place explaining what package bundle is?

Author: @jiayiwang7 It is mentioned on the [overview page](https://anywhere.eks.amazonaws.com/docs/packages/overview/). I vote for making improvements to it, possibly in a next PR.

Reviewer: cool, once we have a better description of what package bundle is in overview, can we link it here as well?

```
export KUBECONFIG=mgmt/mgmt-eks-a-cluster.kubeconfig
```

> The EKS Anywhere package controller periodically checks upstream for the latest package bundle and apply it to your management cluster.

Reviewer: what happen in airgap case?

Author: I'm not sure, I'll find out

> The EKS Anywhere package controller periodically checks upstream for the latest package bundle and applies it to your management cluster, except for when in an [airgapped environment](https://anywhere.eks.amazonaws.com/docs/getting-started/airgapped/). In that case, you would have get the package bundle manually outside of the airgapped environment and apply it to your management cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The EKS Anywhere package controller periodically checks upstream for the latest package bundle and applies it to your management cluster, except for when in an [airgapped environment](https://anywhere.eks.amazonaws.com/docs/getting-started/airgapped/). In that case, you would have to get the package bundle manually from outside of the airgapped environment and apply it to your management cluster.
```

To view the available `packagebundles` in your cluster, run the following:

```
k get packagebundles -n eksa-packages
NAMESPACE       NAME        STATE
eksa-packages   v1-27-125   available
```

> To get a package bundle manually, you can also use `oras` too pull the package bundle from the `public.ecr.aws/eks-anywhere` repository pull. (See the [ORAS CLI official documentation](https://oras.land/docs/) for more details)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get a package bundle manually, you can also use `oras` to pull the package bundle from the `public.ecr.aws/eks-anywhere` repository. (See the [ORAS CLI official documentation](https://oras.land/docs/) for more details)
```

```
oras pull public.ecr.aws/eks-anywhere/eks-anywhere-packages-bundles:v1-27-latest
Downloading 1ba8253d19f9 bundle.yaml
Downloaded  1ba8253d19f9 bundle.yaml
Pulled [registry] public.ecr.aws/eks-anywhere/eks-anywhere-packages-bundles:v1-27-latest
```

Use `kubectl` to apply the new package bundle to your cluster to make it available for use.
```
k apply -f bundle.yaml
```

The package bundle should now be availabe for use in the management cluster.

```
k get packagebundles -n eksa-packages
NAMESPACE       NAME        STATE
eksa-packages   v1-27-125   available
eksa-packages   v1-27-126   available
```

### Activating a package bundle

There are multiple`packagebundlecontrollers` resources in the management cluster which allows for each cluster to activate different package bundle versions. The active package bundle on a cluster determines the version of a packages that are installed.

> To view which package bundles are active for each cluster, use the `kubectl` command to show the `packagebundlecontrollers` in the management cluster.

Author: I was meaning to say the command lists all the `packagebundlecontrollers` are resources that are in management cluster. There is will be one for each cluster but they are all in the management cluster

> To view which package bundles are active for each cluster, use the `kubectl` command to show the `packagebundlecontrollers` in the management cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view which package bundle is active for each cluster, use the `kubectl` command to list the `packagebundlecontrollers` objects in the management cluster.
```

> There are multiple `packagebundlecontrollers` resources in the management cluster which allows for each cluster to activate different package bundle versions. The active package bundle determines the version of a packages that are installed on that cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are multiple `packagebundlecontrollers` resources in the management cluster, which allows for each cluster to activate different package bundle versions. The active package bundle determines the versions of the packages that are installed on that cluster.
```

> To view which package bundles is active for each cluster, use the `kubectl` command to list the `packagebundlecontrollers` objects in the management cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view which package bundle is active for each cluster, use the `kubectl` command to list the `packagebundlecontrollers` objects in the management cluster.
```
